README.md, before:

# 🐙 Da-Kraken - Modern Local App

**BUILD-DEPLOY-ENJOY** - A cost-effective local application with modern UI design and engaging user experience.

## ✨ Features

- 🚀 **Lightning Fast** - Runs entirely locally with zero external dependencies
- 🎨 **Modern Design** - Beautiful, responsive interface with smooth animations
- 🔒 **Privacy-Focused** - Your data stays on your device, no tracking
- 📱 **Cross-Platform** - Works on desktop, tablet, and mobile
- 🌙 **Dark/Light Theme** - Automatic theme switching with manual override
- ♿ **Accessible** - Built with accessibility in mind
- 📝 **Note-Taking** - Simple note keeper with local storage
- 🎨 **Color Palette Generator** - Create beautiful color combinations
- ⏱️ **Pomodoro Timer** - Stay focused with time management
- 🔧 **Settings** - Customize your experience

## 🚀 Quick Start

1. **Clone or download this repository**
2. **Open `index.html` in your web browser**
3. **Start using the app immediately - no installation required!**

### Alternative: Serve with a local web server

```bash
# Using Python 3
python -m http.server 8000

# Using Node.js (with http-server package)
npx http-server

# Using PHP
php -S localhost:8000
```

Then open `http://localhost:8000` in your browser.

## 🛠️ Tools & Utilities

### 📝 Note Keeper
- Write and save notes locally
- Auto-save functionality
- Tab support for better formatting
- Persistent storage across sessions

### 🎨 Color Palette Generator
- Generate beautiful color combinations
- Click any color to copy its hex value
- Harmonious color relationships
- Perfect for design projects

### ⏱️ Pomodoro Timer
- 25-minute focus sessions
- Visual and audio notifications
- Keyboard shortcuts (Space to start/pause, Ctrl+R to reset)
- Automatic break reminders

## 🎨 Modern UI Features

- **Responsive Grid Layouts** - Adapts to any screen size
- **Smooth Animations** - Respects user preferences for reduced motion
- **Modern CSS** - Uses CSS Grid, Flexbox, and custom properties
- **Loading Animations** - Engaging startup experience
- **Interactive Elements** - Hover effects and micro-interactions
- **Progress Tracking** - Uptime counter and interaction statistics

## ⌨️ Keyboard Shortcuts

- `Alt + 1` - Navigate to Dashboard
- `Alt + 2` - Navigate to Tools
- `Alt + 3` - Navigate to Settings
- `Ctrl/Cmd + Shift + T` - Toggle theme
- `Space` - Start/pause timer (when in Tools section)
- `Ctrl + R` - Reset timer (when in Tools section)
- `Escape` - Return to Dashboard

## 🔧 Technical Details

### Architecture
- **Pure HTML5, CSS3, and Vanilla JavaScript** - No frameworks or external dependencies
- **Modular Design** - Separate files for utilities, theming, tools, and main app logic
- **Progressive Enhancement** - Works without JavaScript for basic functionality
- **Modern Web Standards** - Uses latest CSS features with fallbacks

### File Structure
```
Da-Kraken/
├── index.html          # Main application entry point
├── manifest.json       # PWA manifest for installability
├── assets/
│   └── favicon.svg     # Scalable vector icon
├── styles/
│   └── main.css        # Complete styling with CSS variables
└── scripts/
    ├── utils.js        # Utility functions and helpers
    ├── theme.js        # Theme management system
    ├── tools.js        # Tool implementations
    └── app.js          # Main application logic
```

### Browser Compatibility
- **Modern Browsers** - Chrome 70+, Firefox 65+, Safari 12+, Edge 79+
- **Mobile Browsers** - iOS Safari 12+, Chrome Mobile 70+
- **Progressive Enhancement** - Graceful degradation for older browsers

## 💾 Data Storage

All data is stored locally using `localStorage`:

- **Notes** - Saved automatically with debouncing
- **Theme Preferences** - Remembers your light/dark mode choice
- **Color Palettes** - Saves generated color combinations
- **Settings** - Animation preferences and other customizations
- **Statistics** - Interaction count and session data

### Privacy
- **No cookies** - Uses localStorage only
- **No tracking** - No analytics or external requests
- **No network calls** - Completely offline after initial load
- **Your data stays yours** - Everything is stored on your device

## 🎯 Use Cases

- **Personal Productivity** - Note-taking and time management
- **Design Work** - Color palette generation and inspiration
- **Learning and Focus** - Pomodoro technique implementation
- **Offline Work** - Completely functional without internet
- **Privacy-Conscious Users** - No data collection or tracking
- **Developers** - Clean, modern codebase to learn from or extend

## 🚀 PWA Features

Da-Kraken is built as a Progressive Web App (PWA):

- **Installable** - Can be installed on desktop and mobile
- **App-like Experience** - Runs in standalone mode
- **Responsive Icons** - Adaptive icons for different platforms
- **Keyboard Shortcuts** - Quick access to features
- **Offline Ready** - Works without internet connection

## 🎨 Theming & Customization

### CSS Custom Properties
The app uses CSS variables for easy theming:

```css
:root {
  --color-primary: #4338ca;
  --color-secondary: #06b6d4;
  --color-accent: #f59e0b;
  /* ... many more variables */
}
```

### Theme System
- **Auto Mode** - Follows system preference
- **Light Mode** - Clean, bright interface  
- **Dark Mode** - Easy on the eyes
- **Smooth Transitions** - Animated theme switching
- **Accessible Contrast** - WCAG AA compliant colors

## 🤝 Contributing

This project is designed to be easily extensible:

1. **Fork the repository**
2. **Create a feature branch**
3. **Add your improvements**
4. **Test thoroughly**
5. **Submit a pull request**

### Development Guidelines
- Keep it dependency-free
- Maintain accessibility standards
- Follow existing code style
- Test on multiple devices
- Document new features

## 📄 License

This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

## 🎉 Acknowledgments

- Built with modern web standards
- Inspired by Material Design and Tailwind CSS
- Accessibility guidelines from WCAG 2.1
- Performance optimizations from web.dev

---

**Da-Kraken** - Where modern design meets local functionality! 🐙✨

Commit message:

Refactor: Enhance autocommit, logo, and clipboard functionality
Co-authored-by: ibermolina <ibermolina@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

# 🐙 Da-Kraken - Modern Local App

**BUILD-DEPLOY-ENJOY** - A cost-effective local application with modern UI design and engaging user experience.

## ✨ Features

- 🚀 **Lightning Fast** - Runs entirely locally with zero external dependencies
- 🎨 **Modern Design** - Beautiful, responsive interface with smooth animations
- 🔒 **Privacy-Focused** - Your data stays on your device, no tracking
- 📱 **Cross-Platform** - Works on desktop, tablet, and mobile
- 🌙 **Dark/Light Theme** - Automatic theme switching with manual override
- ♿ **Accessible** - Built with accessibility in mind
- 📝 **Note-Taking** - Simple note keeper with local storage
- 🎨 **Color Palette Generator** - Create beautiful color combinations
- ⏱️ **Pomodoro Timer** - Stay focused with time management
- 🔧 **Settings** - Customize your experience

## 🚀 Quick Start

1. **Clone or download this repository**
2. **Open `index.html` in your web browser**
3. **Start using the app immediately - no installation required!**

### Direct File Access

This app is designed to work directly from the file system:
- Simply double-click `index.html` to open in your default browser
- Or drag and drop `index.html` into any browser window
- No server, no ports, no dependencies - just pure local functionality

### Optional: PWA Installation

For the best experience, you can install it as a Progressive Web App:
1. Open the app in Chrome or Edge
2. Click the install icon in the address bar
3. The app will run in its own window like a native application

## 🛠️ Tools & Utilities

### 📝 Note Keeper
- Write and save notes locally
- Auto-save functionality
- Tab support for better formatting
- Persistent storage across sessions

### 🎨 Color Palette Generator
- Generate beautiful color combinations
- Click any color to copy its hex value
- Harmonious color relationships
- Perfect for design projects

### ⏱️ Pomodoro Timer
- 25-minute focus sessions
- Visual and audio notifications
- Keyboard shortcuts (Space to start/pause, Ctrl+R to reset)
- Automatic break reminders

## 🎨 Modern UI Features

- **Responsive Grid Layouts** - Adapts to any screen size
- **Smooth Animations** - Respects user preferences for reduced motion
- **Modern CSS** - Uses CSS Grid, Flexbox, and custom properties
- **Loading Animations** - Engaging startup experience
- **Interactive Elements** - Hover effects and micro-interactions
- **Progress Tracking** - Uptime counter and interaction statistics

## ⌨️ Keyboard Shortcuts

- `Alt + 1` - Navigate to Dashboard
- `Alt + 2` - Navigate to Tools
- `Alt + 3` - Navigate to Settings
- `Ctrl/Cmd + Shift + T` - Toggle theme
- `Space` - Start/pause timer (when in Tools section)
- `Ctrl + R` - Reset timer (when in Tools section)
- `Escape` - Return to Dashboard

## 🔧 Technical Details

### Architecture
- **Pure HTML5, CSS3, and Vanilla JavaScript** - No frameworks or external dependencies
- **Modular Design** - Separate files for utilities, theming, tools, and main app logic
- **Progressive Enhancement** - Works without JavaScript for basic functionality
- **Modern Web Standards** - Uses latest CSS features with fallbacks

### File Structure
```
Da-Kraken/
├── index.html          # Main application entry point
├── manifest.json       # PWA manifest for installability
├── assets/
│   └── favicon.svg     # Scalable vector icon
├── styles/
│   └── main.css        # Complete styling with CSS variables
└── scripts/
    ├── utils.js        # Utility functions and helpers
    ├── theme.js        # Theme management system
    ├── tools.js        # Tool implementations
    └── app.js          # Main application logic
```

### Browser Compatibility
- **Modern Browsers** - Chrome 70+, Firefox 65+, Safari 12+, Edge 79+
- **Mobile Browsers** - iOS Safari 12+, Chrome Mobile 70+
- **Progressive Enhancement** - Graceful degradation for older browsers

## 💾 Data Storage

All data is stored locally using `localStorage`:

- **Notes** - Saved automatically with debouncing
- **Theme Preferences** - Remembers your light/dark mode choice
- **Color Palettes** - Saves generated color combinations
- **Settings** - Animation preferences and other customizations
- **Statistics** - Interaction count and session data

### Privacy
- **No cookies** - Uses localStorage only
- **No tracking** - No analytics or external requests
- **No network calls** - Completely offline after initial load
- **Your data stays yours** - Everything is stored on your device

## 🎯 Use Cases

- **Personal Productivity** - Note-taking and time management
- **Design Work** - Color palette generation and inspiration
- **Learning and Focus** - Pomodoro technique implementation
- **Offline Work** - Completely functional without internet
- **Privacy-Conscious Users** - No data collection or tracking
- **Developers** - Clean, modern codebase to learn from or extend

## 🚀 PWA Features

Da-Kraken is built as a Progressive Web App (PWA):

- **Installable** - Can be installed on desktop and mobile
- **App-like Experience** - Runs in standalone mode
- **Responsive Icons** - Adaptive icons for different platforms
- **Keyboard Shortcuts** - Quick access to features
- **Offline Ready** - Works without internet connection

## 🎨 Theming & Customization

### CSS Custom Properties
The app uses CSS variables for easy theming:

```css
:root {
  --color-primary: #4338ca;
  --color-secondary: #06b6d4;
  --color-accent: #f59e0b;
  /* ... many more variables */
}
```

### Theme System
- **Auto Mode** - Follows system preference
- **Light Mode** - Clean, bright interface  
- **Dark Mode** - Easy on the eyes
- **Smooth Transitions** - Animated theme switching
- **Accessible Contrast** - WCAG AA compliant colors

## 🤝 Contributing

This project is designed to be easily extensible:

1. **Fork the repository**
2. **Create a feature branch**
3. **Add your improvements**
4. **Test thoroughly**
5. **Submit a pull request**

### Development Guidelines
- Keep it dependency-free
- Maintain accessibility standards
- Follow existing code style
- Test on multiple devices
- Document new features

## 📄 License

This project is open source and available under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

## 🎉 Acknowledgments

- Built with modern web standards
- Inspired by Material Design and Tailwind CSS
- Accessibility guidelines from WCAG 2.1
- Performance optimizations from web.dev

---

**Da-Kraken** - Where modern design meets local functionality! 🐙✨
